# Image-Clustering

The current search engines work based on the search technique of related images based on the similarity. The system proposed is an image clustering system based on different clustering algorithm. The aim of the system is to find the image which is similar to the input image from the given dataset. The proposal is to find and compare the efficiency of K-Means Algorithm. The feature extraction is performed using the Artificial Neural Networks Model, ResNet 50, which is a retrained model of Convolutional Neural Networks and these extracted features are clustered using the K-Means Algorithm. 
K-Means Clustering is an unsupervised learning algorithm that is used to solve the clustering problems in machine learning or data science. K-means is a centroid-based clustering algorithm, where we calculate the distance between each data point and a centroid to assign it to a cluster. The goal is to identify the K number of groups in the dataset.
Elbow Method is used to find the optimal number of clusters in the K Means clustering process. The elbow method is a technique used in unsupervised machine learning, specifically in the context of clustering algorithms such as k-means clustering. The objective of k-means clustering is to partition a set of data points into k clusters, where each point belongs to the cluster whose mean is closest to it. The elbow method helps to determine the optimal value of k for the dataset.
The data is then clustered into k clusters based on the similarity we obtain. The accuracy of each cluster is obtained based on the data that is grouped in each cluster. The dataset we use for clustering is the GPR 1200 dataset, which contains 12000 images of 6 different categories and of 1200 instances, 10 from each instance.
